Week of June 19
Jeremy started on June 19.
We began by exploring the data and plotting it.  We sorted buildings by type and plotted against time and temperature.
Goals from Friday, June 23 meeting: Make bar plots with cumulative data; look at temporal patterns; normalize for building area; look for correlations with weather data
Associated files: Plots+by+Building+Type(1), Cumualtive+Usage, Temporal+Usage(1)

Week of June 26
Abby started on June 26.
We made bar plots following the specifications discussed at out June 23 meeting.
We worked on creating functions for different plots.
Goals from Thursday, June 29 meeting: Research standards for energy use by building type; compare meters to decouple usage and find base loads; identify the most costly buildings; look for correlations with age; start a narrative document on GitHub
We created a new csv file without hospital buildings following our meeting on June 29 in which it was determined to focus on non-hospital energy usage.
We identified errors and inconsistencies in the raw data and corrected them.  We added edited data files to a Box folder.
Associated files: Cumulative+Usage+by+Building+Type, Academic+Usage, Administrative+Usage, Dorm+Usage, Hospital+Usage, Lab+Usage, Library+Usage, Service+Usage, Graph by code or building type (function), Usages separated by building type (Function)

Week of July 3
We’ve managed to graph temperature vs usage, normalized for building area for dorms and administrative buildings, with no significant results. We also managed to find some data on annual electricity consumption. It’s not specific to university campuses, but the way the data is categorized suggests it can be applied to universities
We plotted usage per square foot against age.  We saw no clear correlation, although more recent buildings often use more electricity than older ones.
We analyzed buildings' usage by separating out the meters.  Some meters showed little volitility, while others very greatly by month or time of day.  Meters that peaked in hot summer months tended to dip mid-week.  Meters that dipped in the less-populated summer months tended to dip on weekends.
We compared LEED certified buildings to those that used the most electricity.  The LEED certified buildings showed greater disparity between base load and peak load.
Goals from Friday, July 7 meeting: Compare parking lots and predict exhaust fan usage; build list of anomalous buildings; improve usability of building meter plotting functions; compare usage to other campuses if standards are not found; continue to research causes of high usage; develop an anomaly detector with thresholds
Associated files: Average Electricity Use by Building type (2012 EIA Data ), US National Median Table, Building+Age+vs+Cumulative+Usage, Time+plots+by+building+and+by+meter

Week of July 10
We modified the functions from Time+plots+by+building+and+by+meter to include stacked bar plots and time ranges.
We also graphed building age vs usage for all buildings, groups of buildings, and LEED gold buildings 
We began working on an anomaly detector by defining a function to average usage data for days within 50 calendar days, average temperatures within 5 degrees, and the same part of the week(i.e. weekday or weekend).
We applied the anomaly detector to two years of data and adjusted constants to better reflect apparent anomalies.
We focused on data by day, since half-hour anomalies are too frequent and often isolated, and we identified groups of anomalous days close in time.
We worked on analyzing long-term trends but found identifying anomalies on the scale of a month or season difficult with less than two years of data.
Goals from Friday, July 14 meeting: Look at smoothing with moving average and typical shapes of usage per day or week; graph percent differences as well as normal usage with actual usage; identify common anomalies among meters; continue to investigate building groups, starting with labs; continue to look and explain/question high usage 
Associated file: Normal+Usage, Time+plots+by+building+and+by+meter (1)

Week of July 17
We learned about plotly and applied it to make more interractive and informative plots.
We plotted percent difference for the campus (excluding hospital) as a whole and identified campus-wide anomalies.
We created a histogram of anomalies by day, which showed an irregular pattern, including days on which nearly half of buildings experienced anomalies and only a few days with no anomalies.
We ploted number of anomalies by day along with temperature and found no correlation between number of anomalies and temperature.
